|| OVERVIEW ||

Welcome to Ghost50, a modern take on the word game "ghost."
Ghost50 is fundamentally a website where users can make accounts and play games of Ghost50, 
in multiplayer mode or against our AI. 


RULES OF GHOST50:
In a round of ghost50, everyone is a winner!*

*Well, except the loser. But you get the picture.

Players go in a circle, submitting one letter at a time, forming a growing word fragment. 
You lose (and everyone else wins) if the letter you entered forms a 4-letter or longer word, 
if the letter you type cannot be built upon to later form a valid word, 
or if the time you had to enter a letter runs out. 
The "pro move" is to type a letter that doesn't form a word but that will continue the formation of a word, 
so another player loses by either being forced to complete the word, 
or, not knowing what word is being spelled, inputs a letter that cannot form a word.
Losing decreases your all-time score by 1. Winning increases your all-time score by 1. 

Example: User 1 types "g", user 2 types "h", user 3 types "o", user 1 types "s", and user 2 types "t". 
Here, user 2 loses by spelling the valid word "ghost". Sorry, user 2 :(



HOW TO RUN // HOUSEKEEPING:
CS50:
The project is housed in the directory finalproject (creative, we know), and can be run through the Cloud 9 IDE (including the CS50 IDE). 
To run the website, in one terminal window, cd to finalproject, and start mySQL by typing "mysql50 start". 
Then, in another terminal window, cd to finalproject, and start Flask by typing "flask run". 
Now, you can access the website via the IDE's Web Server. 
Now:
Clone source files, set up mySQL and update keys, then run either locally or deploy to a hosting service.

|| GET ORIENTED ||

MAKE YOURSELF KNOWN:
If you don't yet have an account, create one at our register page, accessible from the navigation bar at the top. 
Once you have an account, log in with your username and password to play ghost50!

CHANGE PASSWORD:
Changing passwords is easy, just access the change password page from the navigation bar once logged in.

SWITCH USERS:
If you want to change accounts, simply click log out in the navigation bar and log in as a different user.

INDEX:
This is the ghost50 homepage (index.html). 
Along with the familiar navigation bar across the top, 
our index page displays the summary of ghost50 rules and the current high scores table, with highest-scoring users at the top.
Using the navigation bar or the links at the top of the index page, 
users can either create a round of ghost50, join a round of ghost50, or play against our AI.


|| PLAY MULTIPLAYER ||

CREATE YOUR OWN GAME:
To create your own round of ghost50 (a "game"),
go to the create game page from the navigation bar or the index.
Enter a unique name for your game. 
You'll then be taken to the waiting room for your game.
Other users can join your game, and as they join, the waiting room will dynamically update to display their username and status.
When all the players you want in your game are displayed, hit start game, and your status will display as ready.
Once everyone hits start game (and are "ready"), the game will begin.

JOINING A GAME:
If you're feeling a little less independent, 
go to the join room page from the navigation bar or the index.
This will dynamically display all games that are still accepting players.
If you see a game you'd like to join, just click join game next to that game, and you'll be taken to the respective waiting room for that game.
Again, once all the players you'd like are displayed in the waiting room, click start game, and your status will display as ready.
Once all members of the waiting room click start game (and are "ready"), the game will begin. 

GAME PLAY:
Across the top of the gameplay page, you'll see all the users playing and each user's overall score, 
with the username of the player whose turn it is highlighted in blue.
The current word fragment and the timer for the current turn is also displayed at the top of the page.
Every time it's your turn, the text box to enter a letter will be displayed to you.
Enter your letter before time runs out!
When someone loses and the game ends, an overlay is displayed with the winners and loser.
Clicking on the X will take you back to our homepage, with your score updated accordingly. 


|| PLAY AGAINST OUR AI (If you dare!) ||
First, there was Siri. Then, there was Alexa. And now, there's david m(AI)lan! 
To play against the AI, just click "Play AI" in the navigation bar or the index page.

The user goes first, typing a letter, and then the AI returns a letter, and so on and so forth until you (most likely) lose.
The first letter sometimes takes a few seconds to get back from the AI, but after that should be smooth sailing.
(The reason is the AI was written to make it near-impossible to win against it, 
so there's significant processing involved to optimize the win rate when only 1 letter has been played--more on this in the design section).


|| OUTRO ||
Enjoy! We sure did :)
Much love,
The Ghost(50)Busters




